Advisor: Document how to alert based on checks (#108176)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/grafana-advisor/_index.md

![<Grafana Advisor - LLM suggestions>](/media/docs/grafana-advisor/llm-suggestions.png)

## How to Create an Alert Based on Advisor Results

This guide will walk you through creating a Grafana alert that monitors Advisor check results and triggers when failures are detected.

## Prerequisites

> - Admin access to your Grafana instance

Reviewer: Admin access is generally required for advisor and is already called out in the doc, can probably remove

## Step 1: Create a Service Account and Token

1. Navigate to **Administration → Users and access → Service accounts** in your Grafana instance
2. Click **Add service account**
3. Provide a name (e.g., "advisor-alert-service-account")
4. Set the role to **Admin** to ensure proper permissions
5. Click **Create**
6. In the service account details, click **Add service account token**
7. Provide a token name and set an appropriate expiration
8. Click **Generate token**

> **Important**: Copy the token value immediately and store it securely - you won't be able to see it again

## Step 2: Install Grafana Infinity plugin (if not already installed)

> 1. Go to **Administration → Plugins**

Reviewer: I think we can combine step 2 and 3 to make this simpler and do all through connections, i.e. Navigate to connections, search infinity, If not installed - click install, then click add new data source (from the plugin detail page)

2. Search for "Infinity"

> 3. If not installed, click **Install**

Reviewer: May need to list minimum required version which has the JQ parser

## Step 3: Create an Infinity data source

1. Navigate to **Connections → Data sources**
2. Click **Add data source**
3. Search for and select **Infinity**
4. Configure the data source:
   - **Name**: Give it a descriptive name (e.g., "Advisor API")

>    - **Authentication**: In the **Auth details**, select **Bearer Token**. In the **Auth details** section, paste the service account token from Step 1 and in the **Allowed hosts** section, write your Grafana app URL and click the "Add" button (e.g., `https://your-grafana-host.com`).

Reviewer: I hit a failure:
`Health check failed. requested URL not allowed. To allow this URL, update the data source config in the Security tab, Allowed hosts section`

Reviewer: I swear I did that 😂 it worked once, then failed, then worked. Clearly i got confused

5. Click **Save & test** to verify the connection

## Step 4: Create the Alert Rule

Now you have everything you need to create an alert based on Advisor results.

### 4.1 Basic Alert Setup

1. Navigate to **Alerting → Alert rules**
2. Click **New alert rule**
3. Provide a rule name (e.g., "Advisor Failures Alert")

> ### 4.2 Configure the Query

Reviewer: (not reviewed this section, waiting on version update to plugin). I wonder if providing provisioning example may make this easier?

- **Immediate Action:** Address "Action needed" items promptly to ensure system reliability
- **Systematic Review:** After fixing flagged issues, use the "Refresh" button to confirm all checks pass
- **Proactive Updates:** Address plugin update recommendations under "Investigation needed" even if they haven't caused failures yet

> ## How to Create an Alert Based on Advisor Results

Reviewer 2: As per the style guide, [let's use sentence case in headings and titles](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/1960/files). Ie "How to create an alert based on Advisor results".

This guide will walk you through creating a Grafana alert that monitors Advisor check results and triggers when failures are detected.

### Step 1: Create a Service Account and Token

1. Navigate to **Administration → Users and access → Service accounts** in your Grafana instance
2. Click **Add service account**

> 3. Provide a name (e.g., "advisor-alert-service-account")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Provide a name (for example, "advisor-alert-service-account")
```

4. Set the role to **Admin** to ensure proper permissions
5. Click **Create**
6. In the service account details, click **Add service account token**
7. Provide a token name and set an appropriate expiration
8. Click **Generate token**

> **Important**: Copy the token value immediately and store it securely - you won't be able to see it again

> ### Step 2: Setup Grafana Infinity data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Set up the Grafana Infinity data source
```

> > **Important**: Need to use at least the version 3.3.0 of the Infinity plugin for the JQ parser used later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Important**: Use Infinity plugin >=v3.3.0 for the JQ parser used later.
```

1. Go to **Connections → Add new connection**
2. Search for "Infinity"
3. If not installed, click **Install**. Wait for the plugin to be installed.
4. From the plugin page, click **Add new data source**.
5. Configure the data source:
   - **Name**: Give it a descriptive name (e.g., "Advisor API")
   - **Setup Authentication**: In the **Auth type**, select **Bearer Token**. In the **Auth details** section, paste the service account token from Step 1 and in the **Allowed hosts** section, write your Grafana app URL and click the "Add" button (e.g., `https://your-grafana-host.com`).
6. Click **Save & test** to verify the connection

### Step 3: Create the Alert Rule

Now you have everything you need to create an alert based on Advisor results.

> #### 3.1 Basic Alert Setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 3.1 Set up a basic alert
```
